HTML Form Elements and Attributes
form element: used to create an HTML form for user input.
action attribute: used to specify the URL where the form data should be sent.
method attribute: used to specify the HTTP method to use when sending the form data. The most common methods are GET and POST.
<form method="value-goes-here" action="url-goes-here">
  <!-- inputs go inside here -->
</form>
input element: used to create an input field for user input.
type attribute: used to specify the type of input field. Ex. text, email, number, radio, checkbox, etc.
placeholder attribute: used to show a hint to the user to show them what to enter in the input field.
value attribute: used to specify the value of the input. If the input has a button type, the value attribute can be used to set the button text.
name attribute: used to assign a name to an input field, which serves as the key when form data is submitted. For radio buttons, giving them the same name groups them together, so only one option in the group can be selected at a time.
size attribute: used to define the number of characters that should be visible as the user types into the input.
min attribute: can be used with input types such as number to specify the minimum value allowed in the input field.
max attribute: can be used with input types such as number to specify the maximum value allowed in the input field.
minlength attribute: used to specify the minimum number of characters required in an input field.
maxlength attribute: used to specify the maximum number of characters allowed in an input field.
required attribute: used to specify that an input field must be filled out before submitting the form.
disabled attribute: used to specify that an input field should be disabled.
readonly attribute: used to specify that an input field is read-only.
label element: used to create a label for an input field.
for attribute: used to specify which input field the label is for.
Implicit form association: inputs can be associated with labels by wrapping the input field inside the label element.
Explicit form association: inputs can be associated with labels by using the for attribute on the label element.
button element: used to create a clickable button. A button can also have a type attribute, which is used to control the behavior of the button when it is activated. Ex. submit, reset, button.
fieldset element: used to group related inputs together.
legend element: used to add a caption to describe the group of inputs.
Focused state: this is the state of an input field when it is selected by the user.


Working with HTML Table Elements and Attributes
Table element: used to create an HTML table.
Table Head (thead) element: used to group the header content in an HTML table.
Table Row (tr) element: used to create a row in an HTML table.
Table Header (th) element: used to create a header cell in an HTML table.
Table body (tbody) element: used to group the body content in an HTML table.
Table Data Cell (td) element: used to create a data cell in an HTML table.
Table Foot (tfoot) element: used to group the footer content in an HTML table.
caption element: used to add a title of an HTML table.
colspan attribute: used to specify the number of columns a table cell should span.

Working with HTML Tools
HTML validator: a tool that checks the syntax of HTML code to ensure it is valid.
DOM inspector: a tool that allows you to inspect and modify the HTML structure of a web page.
Devtools: a set of web developer tools built directly into the browser that helps you debug, profile, and analyze web pages.