What Are Variables, and What Are Guidelines for Naming JavaScript Variables?

    In JavaScript, variables act as containers for storing data that you can access and modify throughout your program.

    You can think of variables as boxes that hold values. With variables, you can keep track of things like numbers or text and refer to these values whenever you need them in your program.

    One way to declare a variable in JavaScript is to use the let keyword. You will learn more about the let keyword as well as other ways to declare variables in future lessons.

    Here's an example of using let to declare a variable called age:

        let age;

    Right now, the age variable does not have a value assigned to it. If you try to use it, it will return undefined, which means it has no value.

    Here is an example.

NOTE: console.log() is a function that outputs information to the console, which is a part of your web browser used for debugging code. You will learn more about console.log() in future lessons. Also, the // symbols are used to add comments in your code. Comments are notes for yourself or other programmers that are ignored when the code runs.

        let age;
        console.log(age); // undefined

    To assign a value to a variable you will need to use the assignment operator like this:

        let age = 25;
    
    Now when you use the age variable, it will return the value of 25.

        let age = 25;
        console.log(age); // 25
    
    The assignment operator looks like an equals sign (=) but it doesn't check for equality. You'll learn about the correct operators for checking equality in future lessons.

    The assignment operator is used to assign a value to a variable. This process of assigning a value to a variable is known as initialization.

    One advantage of using the let keyword to declare variables is that you can reassign values to them. In programming, reassignment means giving a new value to a variable that already has one.

    Here is an example of reassigning the value for the age variable.

        let age = 25;
        console.log(age); // 25
        age = 30;
        console.log(age); // 30

    Now the age variable holds the value of 30. Notice that the let keyword wasn't needed again because the age variable was already declared, so there's no need to declare it a second time.

    When using reassignment, you only need to reference the variable name. Reassignment is useful because it allows you to update and change the value stored in a variable as your program runs. A good example of this would be updating points in a game.

    Naming variables may seem straightforward, but there are some rules and best practices to ensure your code is readable and functional.

    Your variable names should describe what the data represents. For example, instead of using a name like x, a more descriptive name such as age or points makes your code easier to understand.

        // Bad variable names
        let x = 10;
        let y = "John";

        // Good variable names
        let age = 10;

    Variables in JavaScript must begin with a letter, an underscore (_), or a dollar sign ($). They cannot start with a number.

        // Valid variable names
        let age;
        let _score;
        let $total;

        // Invalid variable names
        let 1stPlace; // starts with a number

    Variable names are case-sensitive, meaning the word age in all lowercase and the word Age with a capital A are considered different variables.

        let age = 25;
        let Age = 30;
        console.log(age); // 25
        console.log(Age); // 30

    This is why it's important to stick with a consistent naming convention like camelCase. camelCase is where the first word is all lowercase and each subsequent word starts with an uppercase letter.

    Here is an example of using the camelCase naming convention for a variable:

        let thisIsCamelCase;
        let anotherExampleVariable;
        let freeCodeCampStudents;

    There are certain keywords in JavaScript that you cannot use as variable names, such as let, const, function, or return, as they are reserved for the language itself.

    You should also avoid using special characters like exclamation points (!) or at (@) symbols, in your variable names. It is best to keep variable names readable by using letters, numbers, underscores, or dollar signs.

    By following these guidelines, your code will be cleaner and more manageable as it grows in complexity.


How Do let and const Work Differently When It Comes to Variable Declaration, Assignment, and Reassignment?

    When working with JavaScript, you'll often declare variables to store data that you plan to use throughout your program.

    In modern JavaScript, let and const are the preferred ways to declare variables, but they differ in how they handle value assignment and reassignment.

    In this lesson, we'll explore how let and const differ in variable declaration, assignment, and reassignment.

    The let keyword allows you to declare variables that can be updated or reassigned later. You can think of let as a flexible container – once you've stored a value in it, you can change that value as needed throughout your program.

    Here's an example of declaring and assigning a variable with let:

        let score = 10;
    
    In this case, the variable score is declared and assigned the value 10. If you want to update the value later, you can easily do that:

        let score = 10;
        console.log(score); // 10
        score = 20;
        console.log(score); // 20

    Now, score holds the value 20. This makes let particularly useful when you know the value of a variable will change as your program runs.

    On the other hand, const is used to declare variables that are constant. Once you assign a value to a variable declared with const, you cannot reassign it.

    This makes const ideal for values that you don't want to change accidentally during the execution of your program.

    Here's an example of declaring and assigning a variable with const:

        const maxScore = 100;
        console.log(maxScore); // 100

    Once maxScore is assigned the value 100, it cannot be changed:

        maxScore = 200; // This will result in an error

    Trying to reassign a value to a const variable will throw an error in your JavaScript console, as const variables are immutable once they are assigned.

    You can declare a let variable without immediately assigning it a value, and you can assign it a value later:

        let age;
        console.log(age); // undefined
        age = 25;
        console.log(age); // 25


    Variables declared with const must be assigned a value at the time of declaration. If you try to declare a const variable without assigning it a value, you will get an error:

        const age; // Error: Missing initializer in const declaration

    You should use let when you need to declare variables that will be reassigned later. For example, tracking a changing score or updating a value over time in your program.

    Use const when you want to declare variables that should remain constant, like configuration values or settings that shouldn't be changed accidentally.

    You can also use the var keyword, but it's not as recommended anymore. The var is kind of like let, except it has a wider scope, which is more likely to cause problems in your program.

    